# The-Effect-of-Education-and-Corruption-on-Political-Trust-A-World-Wide-Approach

This project focuses on the intersection of public sector corruption and individual-level characteristics in explaining the level of political trust among fifty seven countries world wide. Corruption plays a crucial role in explaining and understanding democratic attitudes of citizens. However, the role of individual-level characteristics have only recently received more scholarly attention. Following the study by Hakhverdian and Mayne (2012), we focus on the interaction of citizens’ level of education and public sector corruption. While most scholars acknowledge the large between country variation in institutional quality (i.e. levels of corruption), most existing studies in the literature focus exclusively on European democracies. The aim of this article is to overcome this short-coming and untangle the complex relationship between corruption, citizens’ characteristics and political trust in a world wide approach, including both, democratic and undemocratic countries. Using individual, and country level data from Transparency International, the World Bank, the World Values Survey (WVS), as well as multiple other sources, we could confirm the tendency that the corrosive effect of corruption on political trust is worse for higher educated people in democratic countries. Furthermore, we offer first empirical evidence that the mechanism that shapes political trust of citizens is different in non-democratic compared to democratic states. Whereas we find that generally, citizens in non-democratic societies exhibit higher political trust compared to democratic societies, there is no substantial difference in the effect of corruption on political trust across different education levels in non-democratic countries.
